---
title: We Love Duguetia
date: '2023-11-28'
draft: false
summary: 'Until recently there has been very little information available about these plants save for a few references deep within obscure botanical texts, far corners of the internet and from the archives and related experiences of avid rare fruit cultivators on sites related to that interest and pursuit. Seeds have been very hard to come by before the present time, with only a select few species surfaced through seed trading websites, or from people who live or travel to their native range and happen upon the circumstances that could provide them with viable seeds. Fruits are even relatively little known within their own range and are still considered very rare in cultivation, though a few species hold  cultural significance (Pindaiva - Duguetia lanceolata).'
tags:
  - Duguetia
image: /img/duguetia_marcgraviana.png
author: The Ylang Ylang Tree
---

By The Ylang Ylang Tree

The fruits themselves are incredibly stunning, with a mathematically precise geometry featuring a fractal pattern of scales on the exterior, each scale corresponding to a segment of pulp enveloping a seed arranged in a radial pattern that reaches outwards from a central core where the segments are anchored. As such, these are, like Annona, considered ‘aggregate fruits’ much like pineapples, in that the individual segments represent their own structures which ripen together in unison upon successful pollination. The flowers of many species are quite beautiful and some said to be very fragrant, giving promise to the potential for perfumery and other methods of interacting with the scent compounds. Flowers are often born on the branches but some species display cauliflory (flowers which are borne on the trunk, even down to the ground). 



The fruits of these species come in many colors, sizes and degrees of edibility, those which are considered good fruits display a wide array of flavors between species and even from one geographic population to another. Information about the characteristics of these fruit are still currently being documented and shared. D. Echinophora for example has a bright red shell with spiny scales and bright orange flesh with the taste reminiscent of sugar apple and melon. Duguetia stenantha is more of a brownish color with softer more triangular spines, generally larger segments than other species, and a yellow-orange flesh with the flavor of pralines, caramel toffee and brown sugar. Duguetia furfuracea produces fruits that look, from the exterior, as if they are made of bronze and are said to have the taste of carrot cake and sweet coconut, though flavor reports vary and some say they do not taste good at all. This could be due to various factors such as having a polarizing flavor or genetic differences, environmental factors etc.  They are however considered highly medicinal and various plant parts are used as a kidney tonic.  Duguetia phaeoclados produces a fruit which has a stunning red and green honeycomb patterned exterior with a white soft pulp compared to sweet tapioca, and most intriguingly, with the strong scent and taste of cherries. The scent is said to be very powerful and noticeable from far away from the fruit. This characteristic has given it the moniker, ‘the cherry sugar apple’. Duguetia stelecantha, a cauliflorous species, is said to have a fruit tasting of sweet ginger candy. These flavor depictions are however, merely impressionistic, and surely fall short of the floral and nuanced yet subtle complexity found within fruits of the Annonaceae family. As we know good food is the purest medicine, and the flavor of these fruits is not the only compelling reason to seek eating them as they contain many beneficial properties and when eaten, surely impart a feeling of well being and gentle euphoria, effects which are corroborated by science.